Subject: D.S.E. History
Date: 09/08/2022

World War I was a global conflict that began in Europe on July 28, 1914
and soon spread across the world involving many nations for four years
ending on November 11, 1918.  Fought against the Central Powers of
Germany, Austria-Hungary, the Ottoman Empire and Bulgaria against the
Allies most prominently the Great Britain, France, Russia, Japan and
Italy.  There were numerous causes that led to the First World War
which Historians describe its main causes as Militarism, Alliances,
Imperialism and Nationalism.  Other causes were the rise of Germany as
a major power, media propaganda and politics of the Balkans.  The
immediate cause of the war was the assassination of Archduke Franz
Ferdinand, the heir to the Austro-Hungarian Empire which was followed
by the July Crisis.  The rise of Germany, majorly nineteenth was
dominated by Great Britain and France industrially, militarily and
economically.  And this dominance was challenged by Germany after the
unification of Germany in 1871.  The annexation of Alsace and Lorraine
from France had boosted coal production and planned Berlin-Baghdad
Railway, which would link Germany to the oilfields in the Persian Gulf.
By the end of the nineteenth century, Germany had become the largest
economy in Europe.  Franco-German War and annexation of Alsace and
Lorraine, the Franco-German War also called the Franco-Prussian War was
fought between a coalition of German states led by Prussia.
