Subject: D.S.E. Political Science
Date: 09/08/2022

Rousseau faced many difficulties during his childhood.  Rousseau wrote
in Discourse on Science and Arts stated that the morale of society has
declined.  Rousseau wrote in Discourse on Inequality that in the
beginning the society was peaceful.  As the society transforms into a
civilised society factors like status and wealth emerge.  These factors
bring inequality in society.  There are two types of inequality, one
natural inequality and two conventional inequality.  Natural inequality
means the natural inequal qualities in man such as different height,
health and body.  Conventional inequality is brought about by the
political system, the economic system and the social system.  Rousseau
says that primitive man was a noble savage.  The primitive man had a
peaceful nature although they were uncivilised.  As population
increased and new inventions discovered, the civilised society emerged.
Due to such changes conflict and competition take place which is the
second stage.  In this stage, man started owning land and property.
Man lost his peaceful nature when agriculture advanced.  The first man
who thought of owning land and property, says Rousseau, established
civil society.  Rousseau was the first political thinker to write in
detail about social inequalities.  Rousseau not only explained social
inequalities but also gave solutions to make society equal.  Rousseau
stated that conventional inequalities can be solved since they are
product of social, political and economic system.
